docs/internal.md, before:

# Develop, test and deploy

NOTE: This section is intended for internal team members. If you are an external developer, please check this [documentation](./external.md).

## Getting Started

Run the following commands to install dependencies and start developing

```
yarn install
yarn dev
```

## Scripts

- `yarn dev` - run `webpack` in `watch` mode
- `yarn storybook` - runs the Storybook server
- `yarn build` - builds the production-ready unpacked extension
- `yarn package` - packages the built code for upload
- `yarn test -u` - runs Jest + updates test snapshots
- `yarn lint` - runs Stylelint and ESLint
- `yarn prettify` - runs Prettier
- `yarn open-firefox` - opens Sporran in Firefox
- `yarn open-chrome` - opens Sporran in Chrome

## Testing in browser

### Getting the _internal_ version of extension

1. Go to [actions page for "Packages the internal version"](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/sporran-extension/actions/workflows/publish.yaml).
1. Click on the build you want to test.
1. Download the extension file from the _Artifacts_ section at the bottom.
1. Unpack the downloaded _sporran-???.zip_ file.

### Getting the _public_ version of extension

1. Go to [actions page for "Packages the public version"](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/sporran-extension/actions/workflows/stores.yaml).
1. Click the buttons "Run workflow" -> "Run workflow" to prepare the public version and wait for the workflow to finish.
1. Click the link for the just finished workflow and download the extension file from the _Artifacts_ section at the bottom.
1. Unpack the downloaded _.zip_ file and unpack the _sporran-???.zip_ from it as well.

### Testing in [Chrome](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/mv2/getstarted/#manifest)

1. Navigate to [chrome://extensions](chrome://extensions).
1. Enable Developer Mode by clicking the toggle switch next to Developer mode.
1. Click the _Load unpacked_ button and select the directory you have unpacked the extension into.

### Testing in [Firefox](https://extensionworkshop.com/documentation/develop/temporary-installation-in-firefox/)

1. Navigate to [about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox](about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox).
1. Click the _Load Temporary Add-on..._ button.
1. Select the manifest.json from the directory you have unpacked the extension into.

## Build and package for uploading

Update the version in `src/static/manifest.json` and `src/configuration/configuration.ts`.

### For the external version

Run the following commands:

```
yarn install
yarn build
yarn package
```

This will generate a file `dist/web-ext-artifacts/sporran-???.zip` ready to be uploaded to stores.
This version will only connect to _KILT Spiritnet_ blockchain via predefined node endpoints.

### For the internal version

Run the following commands:

```
yarn install
yarn build-internal
yarn package
```

This will generate a file `dist/web-ext-artifacts/sporran-???.zip` ready for developers to use.
This version will connect to any node endpoints the user inputs and by default to the _KILT Peregrine_ blockchain.

## Uploading to the release site

We recommend external developers to download the test version of the Sporran extension from [the release page on github](https://github.com/BTE-Trusted-Entity/sporran-extension/releases).
The uploads to this page occur manually.
Only Sporran versions using changes merged to `main` should be publish as releases.

To get a Sporran Extension you could upload on the release, either [build and package it locally](#For-the-internal-version) or alternatively, you could:

1. Merge the wished changes to `main`.
2. Go out the [Sporran GitHub's Actions page for "Packages the internal version"](https://github.com/BTE-Trusted-Entity/sporran-extension/actions/workflows/publish.yaml).
3. Click on the workflow of the wished commit.
4. Download the artifact.

Before updating it to the release site, please prepend a _"TEST-"_ to the zip file's name.
If you got the extension from the github workflow, it would be nice to replace the commit hash with the sporran version on the zip's name.

To uploaded:

1. Got to [the release page](https://github.com/BTE-Trusted-Entity/sporran-extension/releases).
2. Copy title and description of an older release.
3. Click on [Draft a new release](https://github.com/BTE-Trusted-Entity/sporran-extension/releases/new)
4. Paste title and description and attach the Sporran extension zip file.
5. Choose as tag the version of Sporran being release.
   You can directly create the tag while publishing the release.
6. Publish the release.

## Built with

- [React](https://reactjs.org)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/)
- [Jest](https://jestjs.io)
- [Eslint](https://eslint.org/)
- [Prettier](https://prettier.io/)
- [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/)
- [Babel](https://babeljs.io/)
- [webextension-polyfill](https://github.com/mozilla/webextension-polyfill)

## Misc. References

- [Chrome Extension Developer Guide](https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/devguide)
- [Firefox Extension Developer Guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions)

Commit message:

feat: add dev-public to list of scripts

docs/internal.md, after:

# Develop, test and deploy

NOTE: This section is intended for internal team members. If you are an external developer, please check this [documentation](./external.md).

## Getting Started

Run the following commands to install dependencies and start developing

```
yarn install
yarn dev
```

## Scripts

- `yarn dev` - run `webpack` in `watch` mode using the "internal" variant
- `yarn dev-public` - run `webpack` in `watch` mode using the "public" variant
- `yarn storybook` - runs the Storybook server
- `yarn build` - builds the production-ready unpacked extension
- `yarn package` - packages the built code for upload
- `yarn test -u` - runs Jest + updates test snapshots
- `yarn lint` - runs Stylelint and ESLint
- `yarn prettify` - runs Prettier
- `yarn open-firefox` - opens Sporran in Firefox
- `yarn open-chrome` - opens Sporran in Chrome

## Testing in browser

### Getting the _internal_ version of extension

1. Go to [actions page for "Packages the internal version"](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/sporran-extension/actions/workflows/publish.yaml).
1. Click on the build you want to test.
1. Download the extension file from the _Artifacts_ section at the bottom.
1. Unpack the downloaded _sporran-???.zip_ file.

### Getting the _public_ version of extension

1. Go to [actions page for "Packages the public version"](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/sporran-extension/actions/workflows/stores.yaml).
1. Click the buttons "Run workflow" -> "Run workflow" to prepare the public version and wait for the workflow to finish.
1. Click the link for the just finished workflow and download the extension file from the _Artifacts_ section at the bottom.
1. Unpack the downloaded _.zip_ file and unpack the _sporran-???.zip_ from it as well.

### Testing in [Chrome](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/mv2/getstarted/#manifest)

1. Navigate to [chrome://extensions](chrome://extensions).
1. Enable Developer Mode by clicking the toggle switch next to Developer mode.
1. Click the _Load unpacked_ button and select the directory you have unpacked the extension into.

### Testing in [Firefox](https://extensionworkshop.com/documentation/develop/temporary-installation-in-firefox/)

1. Navigate to [about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox](about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox).
1. Click the _Load Temporary Add-on..._ button.
1. Select the manifest.json from the directory you have unpacked the extension into.

## Build and package for uploading

Update the version in `src/static/manifest.json` and `src/configuration/configuration.ts`.

### For the external version

Run the following commands:

```
yarn install
yarn build
yarn package
```

This will generate a file `dist/web-ext-artifacts/sporran-???.zip` ready to be uploaded to stores.
This version will only connect to _KILT Spiritnet_ blockchain via predefined node endpoints.

### For the internal version

Run the following commands:

```
yarn install
yarn build-internal
yarn package
```

This will generate a file `dist/web-ext-artifacts/sporran-???.zip` ready for developers to use.
This version will connect to any node endpoints the user inputs and by default to the _KILT Peregrine_ blockchain.

## Uploading to the release site

We recommend external developers to download the test version of the Sporran extension from [the release page on github](https://github.com/BTE-Trusted-Entity/sporran-extension/releases).
The uploads to this page occur manually.
Only Sporran versions using changes merged to `main` should be publish as releases.

To get a Sporran Extension you could upload on the release, either [build and package it locally](#For-the-internal-version) or alternatively, you could:

1. Merge the wished changes to `main`.
2. Go out the [Sporran GitHub's Actions page for "Packages the internal version"](https://github.com/BTE-Trusted-Entity/sporran-extension/actions/workflows/publish.yaml).
3. Click on the workflow of the wished commit.
4. Download the artifact.

Before updating it to the release site, please prepend a _"TEST-"_ to the zip file's name.
If you got the extension from the github workflow, it would be nice to replace the commit hash with the sporran version on the zip's name.

To uploaded:

1. Got to [the release page](https://github.com/BTE-Trusted-Entity/sporran-extension/releases).
2. Copy title and description of an older release.
3. Click on [Draft a new release](https://github.com/BTE-Trusted-Entity/sporran-extension/releases/new)
4. Paste title and description and attach the Sporran extension zip file.
5. Choose as tag the version of Sporran being release.
   You can directly create the tag while publishing the release.
6. Publish the release.

## Built with

- [React](https://reactjs.org)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/)
- [Jest](https://jestjs.io)
- [Eslint](https://eslint.org/)
- [Prettier](https://prettier.io/)
- [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/)
- [Babel](https://babeljs.io/)
- [webextension-polyfill](https://github.com/mozilla/webextension-polyfill)

## Misc. References

- [Chrome Extension Developer Guide](https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/devguide)
- [Firefox Extension Developer Guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions)
